Describe the role that the MSC played in getting students involved.
Well, of course, with its many committees and programs, of course, the early ones were things like Town Hall and and later on came Opus and the political forum and those things.
The main advantage of those programs is that it wasn't just to bring
a speaker here.
It wasn't just to have an entertainment venue going on at G. Raleigh White.
The whole part of the program was what you did from deciding who was going to come, how you were going to invite them and get them here, and what it was going to take to fund and finance the operation, and then putting it all together and arranging the hall for it, arranging whatever
accessories they needed for their performance, getting all this lined up, setting up ticket sales, all of this provided experience for students and it probably some of the most valuable training most of them ever had.
A lot of them I'm sure had never done anything like this through high school.
And if those MSC sponsored activities had not existed, what would student life have been like here?
Pretty dull.
I mean, just the simple fact that they had piano rooms that people could go play.
One of the most enjoyable feelings I would get would be walking down the hall in the MSC and hearing some very talented pianist in there on that piano just relaxing and killing time, but doing something that made everybody else feel good.
Uh, uh, when you, in those, uh, in the sixties, Guyon Hall was still here as our, what, what kind of events occurred at Guyon Hall?
Well, Guyon Hall was still used for assemblies then.
Most things didn't require G. Raleigh White, so various meetings of core units or even the whole core just about could fit into Guyon Hall.
They had programs over there.
They had movies over there.
They would have talent shows each year over there.
It was just a fun place to go.
And the movies were a real kick because if a monster came on the screen, somebody would invariably jump up in the front row and yell, roommate!
Or if a particularly
unattractive actress or somebody came across the screen they would yell out something about how that was the girl my roommate dated last week or something like that and it's just
It was a lot of fun and of course it was cheap entertainment.
I don't remember what they charged then but it couldn't have been more than a buck or so to go to the movie.
And it provided an avenue where you didn't have to try to find a ride to Brian because everybody didn't have a car back then.
And there wasn't any bus transportation or anything like that to get around.
Now, it was an almost all-male audience.
Right.
Were there things said that were obscene?
Did anybody yell out things that were really... Well, I think generally there was very little obscenity going on, and if there was, usually they got shouted down pretty fast by everybody else, especially if there were ladies in the audience.
And there was...
a kind of an unwritten rule about decorum back then.
And whether it was the military side of A&M or just most people's family upbringing, there was an understanding that there was just certain lines you didn't cross, especially if it was mixed company.
But even if it wasn't, you didn't do things
go on nowadays.
Do you remember, we still had in those days, religious emphasis week.
Do you remember attending any?
Oh, yes.
I was very active in the Wesley Foundation, but probably for all of the wrong reasons, it was another place to get away from the dorm and get away from the sophomores.
But we would have Wesley Foundation every Wednesday evening, and usually on Sunday evening, we'd have some activities over there.
At that time it was an old army barracks building pushed right up next to the A&M Methodist Church.
And we would just have meals.
Everybody would go over there and they'd pitch in to fix meals.
And a lot of times the church ladies would help fix meals for us.
And occasionally we'd have a program, but there were
usually ping pong games and things like that to do.
And again, it was just an escape.
And this was not a place to me to date.
These were all male.
They were all male, pretty much.
Now, when I came back in 62, they had built the new Wesley Foundation building across the street from the church.
And we did have some young ladies who
were at that time starting to come to A&M.
And they participated in our programs, made it a lot nicer, gave you another reason to want to get over there.
But we had a very, very strong program.
Matter of fact, I was president of that group one year.
And some of the relationships, as far as people I got to know in this area, some of the best ones were over there, Dottie and Earl Kniebel.
were two of our sponsors for our group over there.
And matter of fact, when I finally finished my degree in 66, Dottie had me and told me to invite a couple of friends over for kind of a congratulations dinner for graduation.
And they were very close to us.
I still see Earl talk to him, have talked to him a few times.
Of course, he lost Dottie a few years back.
But those kind of people, you know, just made all the difference in the world.
You mentioned G. Riley White.
Describe going to an Aggie basketball game in the 60s.
Well, Shelby described it best.
The Holler House on the Brazos.
His teams back then, and even Bob Rogers before him,
Pretty well filled the house, and with players like Carol Broussard and Benny Lennox and some of those, it was a lot of fun to watch Aggie basketball.
They were very competitive, even if they weren't at the top of the league at that time, and several times they were.
John Beasley came along at that period, even got to watch Randy Mattson play.
And Randy says we're exaggerating, but I swear G. Riley White shook when he dove for a free ball.
And every smaller player around him scrambled to get out of the way.
But that was kind of a fun year.
And we had a guy named John Reynolds, I believe, on the team back then.
And it was real ironic that every time John Reynolds would go in, a fight would break out on the floor.
And a few minutes later, John and the opposing leading scorer would be kicked out of the game.
We'd...
knew that Shelby would never condone anything like that, but it seemed like it happened like clockwork.
Describe your view of Coach Metcalf then as a coach.
Describe him in terms of personality and coaching style.
I don't know that Shelby ever changed either one of those very much through the years.
I mean, he's always been a very easy-going, kind of down-home sort of fella.
And I still remember the game at Gregory Gym in Austin when some guy took a swing at one of his players at mid-court and the stands emptied.
And Shelby told people afterwards that,
ask him what did he do when the fight broke out.
He said, the first thing I did was look to see where Benny Lennox was and make sure he wasn't in the middle of it.
He says, and then I took out my comb and started playing the national anthem.
So those were fun days.
I was luckily high enough in the stands I couldn't get down to the floor.
Let's see.
Student leadership.
In those days, what were the highest
in terms of status among students.
What were the highest student leadership positions?
Well, of course, the Corps being what it was, I guess the Corps commander was one of the main leaders on campus.
Student body president didn't have quite the stature that it does today.
And at times, people seem to feel like
The ones who got that job or got elected to it were sort of the darlings of Wayne Stark's MSC group, and they didn't have a whole lot positive to say about them.
The student government got its start here, I believe, in the early 50s, I think it was when they got going.
And it was starting to become more effective, I think.
It was not the leadership role that it is today.
What about band commander?
Well, of course, we were in the army outfits on the north side, and nobody in the band meant very much to us.
But, yeah, he had quite a bit of sway over in his area, I'm sure.
MSC council president or whatever the title was?
Well, those were viewed as very responsible positions, but...
as far as exerting leadership over the campus, really I don't think they were viewed that way.
Now they probably had a lot more influence than most of us thought about.
And senior class president had been,
weigh in earlier years a very respected position, but I don't think it was in the 60s.
I don't think it was quite the same then.
The main sway that those people had is oftentimes they were class officers at least, if not president of their class, all the way up.
And so they already had a pretty good following of people by the time they achieved the presidency of their class as a senior.
They might have been junior class president or treasurer or something and were known by a lot of people.
Which were the most important student organizations as students thought of them?
Well.
Other than the Corps.
I don't know if you'd call this an organization, but the Yale leaders were pretty highly thought of.
And they were, you know, sort of special people to everybody.
RVs, singing cadets?
Well, I think to the average student on campus that those organizations were largely important to the people who were in them and that we, you know, we didn't feel like somebody being an RV meant any special thing to us.
Or Yale Leader?
Yale Leader was a little bit different.
Yale Leader was in that, almost that celebrity kind of
where if you could say you knew a Yale leader, you felt like you'd stepped up the ladder a little bit.
And, of course, I felt real big because my freshman year, the head Yale leader was a senior from my hometown, a fellow named Joe Leaper.
And so I felt pretty good when I carried him and dumped him in the fish pond.
And also that reminds me, too, after the game that Charlie Milstead and Don Meredith,
played against each other.
Their last game was here on Kyle Field.
And I remember being part of the group that went out and picked up Charlie Milstead.
And we had him halfway off the field when he started tapping us on the head.
And he, turn around, turn around, turn around.
He made us take him back to the middle of the field and set him down where Don Meredith was.
And they shook hands and walked off the field together.
That was one of my big memories as a freshman.
That is.
Now, see, that's the special kind of thing we need.
You talked about my association with A&M before.
I forgot to mention that as a newspaper carrier, I won a free ticket to the A&M Rice game in 1955, which was the big come-from-behind victory that happened in the last two minutes of the game.
I was up in the upper stands at Rice Stadium that day, and I mean, it made an impression.
And it made such an impression that my junior year in high school, we had about 25 guys from my high school that were going to come to A&M.
Before we graduated, Bear Bryant left, and three of us came here from my high school.
One of them ended up finishing his degree at the University of Houston some years later, and the other one,
I don't know if he ever went and finished his degree anywhere.
I'm the only one out of my high school class that graduated up here.
So I have a lot of fun when I go to my high school reunions.
I'm the Aggie.
Let's see, you didn't have a car those first years.
How did you get back and forth from home?
Well, mostly catching rides.
There were some people that did have cars, of course, and if they were freshmen, they got to park in the Navasota and later in the Hempstead lot out on the south side of campus.
We had, there was a bulletin board up in the MSC and over in the YMCA where people posted notices of rides.
If you wanted to ride or if you wanted to give people a ride, you put a note up there.
And then people got in touch with you and you worked it out.
But we had a lot of folks from my hometown area down there that went back and forth.
So it was pretty easy to catch a ride most weekends.
Hitchhiking had stopped by and large.
Hitchhiking was still going on.
I hitchhiked at home.
in as many as 20 rides and as few as one from the east gate of A&M.
And caught rides with the fellow who designed the new College Station High School back then, who later was one of the main parties in starting the architecture firm that became Caudill, Rowlett, and Scott, that later became
the big 3D firm that exists today.
It evolved into that along with other companies.
But he and I had a very nice visit, and if I'm not mistaken, he did design work on my high school in Texas City that I graduated from.
I was the first high school class to graduate from that new high school in Texas City.
Now, was there an especially good place for an Aggie to catch a ride in the Houston area?
Well, I rarely was trying to hitchhike out of Houston.
I mean, if I was hitchhiking in Houston, it was from generally wherever I got let off by somebody else.
So I wasn't looking for any particular place.
The worst place to try to hitchhike was between here and Huntsville, unless, unless,
You're in the early evening when all the Aggies are going that way and that's where you're going or you're late at night and you're coming this way and all the Aggies are coming back.
Any other time of day, you do a lot of walking out there.
Was it easier to get a ride for a student here in uniform or out of uniform?
Back in those days, I think it was probably a lot of people would stop for somebody in uniform.
And I think a lot of those people probably felt
who weren't really familiar with A&M probably thought we were Army and got an education after we got in the car with them.
Did you ever have a bad experience hitchhiking while you were a student here?
Oh, I got into some pretty crowded, smelly cars a time or two.
I don't remember any particularly bad experiences except some of them that
took me only a short distance and then let me out in the middle of nowhere where there was hardly anybody coming by.
But they didn't do that deliberately?
No.
That just happened to be where they were turning off.
And they never tried to take advantage of you in any way?
No.
Most of them very pleasant.
And I think there was one time I drove a car for somebody because the older gentleman said, you know, he was getting a little bit tired and he'd been riding for a while and he liked a spell.
I never did get a ride like my brother did once.
He claims that he was on the Gulf Freeway going south toward Galveston, and this convertible pulled over with two girls in it.
And he got in with them, and they started heading down there.
He found out they were secretaries working in Houston, and he said that they asked him, you know, why didn't he just come on to Galveston with them?
He told them, he said, no, no, I've really got to get home.
I've got something I've got to get home for.
And my mother asked me, said, I brought you up better than that.
How often did you and your buddies go to Bryan?
Not real often.
Probably more when I came back.
Now, we went as outfit groups a time or two to Wormans Cafe on the north side of Bryan.
It was either that or the movie theaters was about all we went in for.
Matter of fact, that was about all that was there at that time.
And when I came back as a civilian student, we had cars, some of us then, and we would often go in to eat at Wormans or other restaurants in the Bryan area.
And as far as how often, I would say we probably drove in there maybe once or twice a week.
At that time.
When you and your buddies wanted to have a good time on a Saturday night, where did you go and what did you do?
Well, I remember one night that we hit about four or five bars in Bryan.
And found out the next day that we were one step ahead of the Liquor Control Board agents because they had gone to every one of them that night apparently right after we had.
And they had picked up some people that were underage.
And, of course, most of the time we had people with us that were underage.
And at those places did you all buy beer?
Yes, usually.
And sometimes danced, depending on who was there.
Was there any, do you remember any routine check then to ensure that you were the legal?
By the bartender?
Fairly cursory and most any kind of ID would get by.
They didn't have the threat of legal suits if somebody got in a car wreck after being there or anything like they do nowadays.
How often did you encounter people that were clearly drunk?
There were usually some, usually...
At least one in our group probably was.
And how often did somebody that you knew go to Whiskey Bridge?
Oh, on every major weekend when there was a big dance or anything like that going on, they usually sent somebody down there.
I imagine there were some people who went more often than that, but usually on major event weekends, they sent the car down there.
Oh, in bonfire time.
We loaded up one year on a
a case of half pint bottles of Thunderbird wine and went out to the bonfire cutting area and we'd go out and pick up a log and haul it in and put it on the truck and we'd reach in our back pocket and take a swig and we'd go out and pick up another log and bring it back in.
All these other guys would bring a log in and they'd throw it on the truck and then they'd collapse on the ground for about 30 minutes and we brought in, I don't know, probably
five or six times as many logs as any other group out there, and we were feeling no pain at all.
If they'd ever figured it out, I think we'd have been in real trouble, but nobody did.
About the worst thing that happened to me out there was losing a tennis shoe in the mud and losing my dad's car keys that I had forgotten to take out of my pocket when I came back home from home one weekend.
Luckily, he had a spare, but he never let me in the end of that.
You mentioned bonfire.
Describe the bonfire routine in your student years.
Well, it was pretty much parceled out to different outfits to do different things.
I mean, we were generally always assigned to the cutting area, and except for guard duty occasionally after they were building the bonfire stack,
Most of us never worked around the stack.
There were certain units designated to move logs around the stack and of course they were still using block and tackle a lot then.
I think they had a crane but they still lifted a lot of logs up on the stack with block and tackle.
So it was a different type of operation and very, very well organized.
I mean they had one unit who was on a rope to pull.
They had another unit who was bringing logs in.
They had a crew that was
to tie up the log, to get it ready to lift up there.
I mean, it was pretty well spelled out.
It was like a Ford Motor Company operation.
You did this and they did that and they did that and it got built.
Were there other units who were primarily assigned only to the cutting area?
Yes.
There were a lot of units assigned to the cutting area because that was probably where you spent your largest amount of time.
Once they were brought to the stack area, I mean, it was only,
short distance carries to move logs to get them ready to go on the stack.
We were often carrying logs through the woods.
I guess if you used city blocks, we would probably carry logs sometimes, I don't know, six, eight blocks distance to get them to where the trucks were picking them up.
If they could, they'd bring the trucks in closer, but a lot of times you had to get the ones that were farther out there and there were no roads cut through in some places.
About how many people would lift a log and carry one log?
Well, it depended a little on the log, but you line people up with their shoulder to the log just about solid.
I mean, as much space as you had for somebody to stand in front of you and somebody to stand behind you and you get room on it.
They used the cross sticks.
You know what those were called.
And you'd line up on each stick would probably, again, depending on the log, you might have three or four or five people on each side of the main log lifting on the stick to lift it up between them.
And when they'd get to the unloading place,
What they would do was the people with the sticks on one side would be directed to lay the end of their stick down on the ground while the other people held theirs up.
And these people would hold onto the log to keep it from rolling.
And then at the given command, they would let go and duck under the log and let it roll on down onto the ground.
And then they'd use similar means of stacking timber up next to the truck.
and they would roll them up that to get them on the truck.
Nowadays, I don't know what they do out there.
They got everything from forklifts to small cranes that are picking them up and moving them out there.
And about when did the bonfire cutting start in the fall?
Seemed like it was about the beginning of October.
that we would start having some cutting.
And it would go on primarily on weekends throughout October.
And then it would probably pick up pretty solidly during the early part of November.
And by mid-November, I think they usually tried to have all the logs cut and hauled to the site.
And then from then on, it was working over at the stack.
And the terminology of red pots and all that was already there or not?
Red pots, I'm not sure.
I guess they had brown pots and yellow pots and green pots and whatever they got now, but I don't remember much of anything except the red pots being in charge.
And the bonfire itself was held in the area behind Duncan, south of Duncan Hall.
Yes.
The same field where the A&M Press Building is to that.
And where the band practiced then, did it?
Oh, yes.
Do you remember any particular injuries that occurred?
Well, I think there were a lot of cuts and scrapes and stuff like that, nothing real serious.
Of course, several years before I got here, a fellow named James Saran was killed in an accident, and a fellow was talking to me about it this last weekend, said he went back and looked up the story, and he said the story in the paper then said something about some UT students were trying to get to the bonfire, and he was,
out with the guarding group or out near the cutting area but it was along the roadway or highway and that he was standing in front of a truck and somehow the truck either let go or came down the hill and caught him between that and another truck.
And that's the only fatality that I know happened back in that era.
The only other one John Adams says was the plane crash which was
A Navy flyer who had at one time been a student at A&M was showing off and buzzing the bonfire stack and lost control of his aircraft or something and crashed to the other side of the tracks.
Were you here in the fall of 60?
Let's see, Kennedy assassination in 62.
No, I was laying out of school working in Houston at that time, so I wasn't part of any of that.
That year that we canceled the bonfire.
Looking back on it, of what value is bonfire to Aggie students?
Well, I think, of course, the value originally to most of us, I think, was the emotional feeling and stuff we got when it was set off
on the night before Thanksgiving.
And I think to a lot of us that was really all it was.
I think we probably felt like kind of indentured servants as far as building it.
We didn't have a whole lot of choice in all of that.
I think it has grown into something now that has a lot more going for it.
Now, I don't know if they exaggerate the figures or not.
It seems to me they quote figures
a lot higher than the number of people that may really be working on Bonfire and I think they're counting everybody from support personnel who bring cookies and coffee and things like that.
I wish more people could be involved in it because I think they would have a greater appreciation for it but it does provide a good leadership laboratory and apparently that hadn't been as good a leadership laboratory as we'd like it to be after the incident last fall.
When you were working on the bonfire, did many people work on it after, say, their sophomore year?
I think it kind of dwindled off.
If I remember the seniors and the juniors in the Corps, the juniors were still pretty much kind of required to be over there, but they were in leadership positions, mostly just directing crews and things like that.
A few would stay involved.
The majority would stroll around there once in a while and kind of throw their weight around, but I don't think a lot of them.
It became pretty much of a freshman and sophomore deal.
for the most part, and I guess that's why every freshman class considers the bonfire they build their freshman year their bonfire, not the one that burns their senior year.
What were the dimensions on the bonfires you remember in your student days, in terms of how many stacks and so forth?
Well, of course, it was back right after I was here that they set the record for 107 or 109 feet tall.
I think that was primarily the center pole.
I don't know if the stack itself ever got that high, but they counted that.
It was up there.
I would say the stacks when I was here were probably, I don't know, 60, 65 feet tall.
And so how many stacks would that have been?
Oh, they had as many as six, I think.
Okay.
I took a picture once from a crane over on Duncan Field looking down on the top of the stack.
I've got those somewhere in my attic, too.
Campus personalities.
Pinky Downs.
Oh, yeah.
Describe him.
Now, Pinky was one of the ones that met us when we were freshmen, and you'd run into him in the MSC or different places on campus, and he'd regale you with all of these stories about how things were when he was a student, and he just was helping everybody have a good time.
He carried the title of unofficial greeter back then, and he was just a fixture.
He was just somebody you enjoyed being around.
Describe him physically.
Small, thin gentleman, wasn't big at all.